compatibility-verifier/README.md, before:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

# Compatibility Regression Testing Scripts for Apache Pinot

## Usage

### Step 1: checkout source code and build targets for older commit and newer commit
```shell
./compatibility-verifier/checkoutAndBuild.sh -o olderCommit -n newerCommit [-w workingDir]
```
***NOTE***: `[workingDir]` is optional, if user does not specify `[workingDir]`, the script will create a temporary working 
dir and output the path, which can be used in step 2.

### Step 2: run compatibility regression test against the two targets build in step1
```shell
./compCheck.sh -h
Usage:  -w <workingDir> -t <testSuiteDir> [-k]
MANDATORY:
  -w, --working-dir                      Working directory where olderCommit and newCommit target files reside.
  -t, --test-suite-dir                   Test suite directory

OPTIONAL:
  -k, --keep-cluster-on-failure          Keep cluster on test failure
  -h, --help                             Prints this help
```

Commit message:

Improvements in compat-tester (#7024)
* Improvements in compat-tester

Enable users to provide tag names as an alternative to actual git hash.

Made -w mandatory and -o and -n as optional arguments. If -n is
not specified, the current revision is taken to be the newer one.

If -o is also not specfied then the previous commit is taken to be
the older one.

Moved the error messages in compCheck so that they show up after the cluster
is shutdown.

* Updated README.md

compatibility-verifier/README.md, after:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

# Compatibility Regression Testing Scripts for Apache Pinot

## Usage

### Step 1: checkout source code and build targets for older commit and newer commit
```shell
Usage: checkoutAndBuild.sh [-o olderCommit] [-n newerCommit] -w workingDir
  -w, --working-dir                      Working directory where olderCommit and newCommit target files reside

  -o, --old-commit-hash                  git hash (or tag) for old commit

  -n, --new-commit-hash                  git hash (or tag) for new commit

If -n is not specified, then current commit is assumed
If -o is not specified, then previous commit is assumed (expected -n is also empty)
Examples:
    To compare this checkout with previous commit: 'checkoutAndBuild.sh -w /tmp/wd'
    To compare this checkout with some older tag or hash: 'checkoutAndBuild.sh -o release-0.7.1 -w /tmp/wd'
    To compare any two previous tags or hashes: 'checkoutAndBuild.sh -o release-0.7.1 -n 637cc3494 -w /tmp/wd

```

### Step 2: run compatibility regression test against the two targets build in step1
```shell
./compCheck.sh -h
Usage:  -w <workingDir> -t <testSuiteDir> [-k]
MANDATORY:
  -w, --working-dir                      Working directory where olderCommit and newCommit target files reside.
  -t, --test-suite-dir                   Test suite directory

OPTIONAL:
  -k, --keep-cluster-on-failure          Keep cluster on test failure
  -h, --help                             Prints this help
```
